Regarding whether Buddha can save someone who has lost all their possessions, I'm writing this from the song "
Rose with Thorns": "
Hello sister, if only I had met you
sooner. Because of business
losses, I've lost all my possessions, and my husband has
left me for someone else. I really
just want to run away because the debt is too great.
My family knows I'm still in debt. Seeing me go to the
temple, my sister-in-law said, '
That's why I thought about going to the temple. It
's a mistake to think about going to the temple while you're in debt.
Buddha can't help you. You have to do
it yourself.' I think a lot and sometimes I'm
shaken by that saying. I hope you can
help me and give me some advice to
strengthen my resolve.
You can find Yen's video titled 'Practicing Buddhism
in Busy Times,'
and you can apply it to the time when you've
lost all your possessions. Negative thoughts
often arise because negative thoughts cause karmic
consequences to
continue. Some people say that when you
lose all your possessions, then your children become wayward, meaning
everything just comes crashing down. But
in reality, when you
first face difficulties, that's the real issue."  The first loss
is when a person creates evil thoughts. It is
because of these evil thoughts that suffering escalates.
If, when we encounter
suffering, we can stop those
evil thoughts, then suffering will never escalate. I
will tell you, my fellow practitioners, a
true story from my own experience.
When I made my vow, I
only wished to encounter the Buddha's teachings to
practice. Actually, when I made the vow, I
only had the intention of practicing,
not imagining how
serious that vow would be or
what would happen to me. I made
this vow: even if I
lose all my possessions,
even my beauty, my
body might be destroyed, my family might be
scattered, I only pray to meet an enlightened
master and practice the true path of Buddhism.
The vow was expressed through
continuous actions over
many days. The first vow, about
losing all my possessions,
sparked a thought in
me: I should buy a car to use for work.  We're all
sitting here together, some of you are from Yen's group. And
indeed, the business didn't go
as planned, and Yen poured all her
assets into it. That is, I only thought about
doing good deeds to create a foundation
for my children later. So,
when we face difficulties, we ca
n't help
but have negative thoughts. If
we sow good deeds when suffering comes,
our karma will
be redirected. But if
we encounter suffering and our
minds become negative,
this negative mindset will lead to a
series of painful consequences.
Because in our past lives we have created
a lot of bad karma, one
evil thought will arise in our minds, and that's the
principle of cause and effect. So,
when people encounter
such hardship and suffering, they
still have to work
to earn money, but in their hearts they must have a
place of refuge, which means they take refuge
in the Buddha and his teachings.  We
listen to the Dharma so that we can
purify our minds and redirect
our thoughts in each situation, thus
transforming our karma. Therefore,
when we encounter the greatest suffering, only the Buddha can save
us. This is precisely why only the
Buddha's teachings can guide us.
Otherwise, if
we fall into evil practices,
we will only generate unwholesome thoughts, leading to further suffering. Listening to the
Dharma
costs nothing, and practicing the Buddha's teachings
in the heart costs nothing.
Therefore, when we are at our poorest and most suffering, practicing the Buddha's teachings
will be
our salvation, as our minds will be at peace.
Because when we encounter suffering, the
mind suffers the most, as this mental suffering gives
rise to evil deeds. Therefore,
we must contemplate karma. By
contemplating karma,
we can endure suffering, and our minds will suffer
less. If we do not know the
Buddha's teachings, we will not be able to
endure suffering, and we will continue to cause
trouble, causing
our minds to become agitated and experience more
pain.
That's why everyone who is
suffering, even at their worst, should come to
Buddhism. But those who haven't suffered yet should
come first so they don't suffer,
don't wait until you're suffering before
[music]
comes to you.